---
author: admin
date: 2012-12-11T10:17:20-07:00
aliases:
- /2012/12/11/1441
title: Я составляю списки, а затем я составляю списки списков
slug: 1441
tags:
- Всякая всячина
- Юмор
---

Веселый тред на reddit.com: [Как бы вы объяснили в чем состоит ваша работа человеку, который родился 1000 лет назад](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/14n8gl/how_would_you_describe_your_job_to_someone_who_is/):

> Marketing? I'd just say I'm a whore.

> Using a self moving horseless cart I take Italian food to people who ask for it over vast distances.

> Sorcery

Примерно каждый четвертый объявляется ведьмой <del>и отправляется на костер</del>:

>>> I'm a web developer working in aerospace. Fuck.

>> You create illuminated manuscripts displaying the glory of machines that fly through the air.

> A witch!

Или вот еще шедевр:

> I represent a guild of trained craftmen whose purpose is to resolve the problems of common people.

> Our craftmen are instructed in the arts of the conception of extremely complex machineries, and are so versed in their specialities that they forgot the language of the common people.

> The common people, however, wouldn't grasp a word of the speakings of my craftmen. There is just no way that they can talk together and understand each other.

> My duty in the guild of craftmen is to understand the needs of the common people. I discuss with them to know their problems, and I think of ways that our craftmen could help solving these problems by inventing complex machineries.

> Then, because I have been trained for years in this craft, I can scribbe down these needs on parchments in a formulation that speaks to my craftmen. We call these parchments the "project specifications" and treat them with immense respect as they represent our duties toward the common people.

> My craftmen finally read, understand and study these parchments that and are able to apply their art and genius to the problems of common people. In the end, I have the duty to make sure that the machinery designed by my craftmen can effectively resolve the problems that we described in the project specification.

> If I had to give an example of these complex machineries, we once made a very large and complex automat that helps a local ruler estimate the charges dues by his servants in exchange of provisioning them with water and other resources. We called this system an automatic meter reading solution.